Introduction

The Apache XML Delivery Toolkit (AxKit) is a suite of tools for the
Apache httpd server running mod_perl, that give developers extremely
flexible options for delivering XML to all kinds of browsers, from
handheld systems, Braille readers, and ordinary browsers. All this can
be achieved using nothing but W3C standards, although the plugin
architecture provides the hooks for developers to write their own
stylesheet systems, should they so desire. Two non-W3C stylesheet
systems are included as examples. 

The toolkit provides full intelligent caching, which ensures that if
any parameters in the display of the XML file change, the cache is
overwritten. The toolkit also provides hooks for DOM based stylesheets
to cascade. This allows (for example) the initial stylesheet to provide
menu items and table of contents, while the final stylesheet formats
the finished file to the desired look. It's also possible to provide
multiple language support this way. 

Installation

Installation is relatively simple, provided you already have mod_perl
installed on your Apache server. Download the toolkit and extract. Then
in the new directory created type: 

	perl Makefile.PL 
	make 
	make test 
	make install

Then add the following lines to your httpd.conf, or .htaccess file: 

	PerlTypeHandler +Apache::AxKit::XMLFinder

	PerlHandler +Apache::AxKit::StyleFinder

	PerlSetVar StylesheetMap "application/x-xpathscript => \
			Apache::AxKit::Language::XPathScript"

The StylesheetMap is the only thing you need to change if you add more
stylesheet processing systems (or develop your own). 

You're now ready to start delivering XML files with
Apache::XPathScript, a system which combines XPath and ASP-like syntax.
Type "perldoc Apache::XPathScript" for a brief overview of the syntax. 


Associating XML Files with Stylesheets

The method by which you associate stylesheets with XML files is
detailed at http://www.w3.org/TR/xml-stylesheet and also in the HTML
4.0 specification which the above links to. In brief, to associate an
XML file with an XpathScript stylesheet, add the following processing
instruction to the top of the file, just after the <?xml?>
declaration: 

<?xml-stylesheet href="/mystyle.xps" 
	type="application/x-xpathscript"?>

That is the simplest form that processing instruction can take. See the
above link for more details and options. 

Download

The latest version of AxKit can always be found at
http://xml.sergeant.org/download/. 

Mailing List

For questions about AxKit, please join the mailing list, by sending a
blank mail to: axdtk-subscribe@sergeant.org. This is an ezmlm mailing
list. 

   Archive

   The archive of the mailing list, containing some useful
   information and tidbits, is at 
   http://xml.sergeant.org/cgi-bin/ezmlm-cgi/2.
